# All things Agilion.

For employees and customers.

##Hello World 
Welcome to Agilion.

We believe good software helps solve problems and enables people to do great things in this life.

We've formed an exceptional team of product and software development professionals who take pride in helping customers refine ideas, build, iterate and launch web based products. 

We're a web and mobile application development agency that serves customers in the Northeast region of the United States.

We hope you'll join us as either a loyal customer or exceptional member of our team.
     
  
##Vision

Agilion creates a positive impact in the world by bringing valuable products to market.

Our highly skilled team is always improving and supporting our customers and employees.  We foster an environment that empowers both team and individual progress towards purpose, mastery and autonomy.    

##Values

###High Standards
Agilion values people and results.  Happy people produce high quality work.  Constant progress leads to happiness and fulfillment.  Agilion sets high standards and encourages continuos progression and stretch goals in all that we do.

###Respectful communication
Concise, clear and consistent communication is key to product and team success.  Regularly scheduled communications between Agilion and customers builds trust.

###Simplicity
The height of knowledge cultivation and understanding problems leads to simplicity in solutions and actions.  We seek simplicity in our product designs, user interactions, technical solutions, communications, processes.  Simplicity isn't always easy, and sometimes the path is complex to navigate, but ultimately we strive towards simplicity as a cornerstone for getting things done.

###Focus
The art of triaging priorities and setting one main goal or objective at a time allows the team to progress faster on the most important things with fewer distractions.  Focus leads to quality results.

###Repeatable process
Agilion is a highly innovative and creative agency.  We value repeatable and predictable processes that allows us to focus on our highest level work and minimize risks associated with delivering new products.
 
###Always learning
Successful people never stop acquiring specialized knowledge in their chosen profession.  Our people are always seeking to better themselves and their skills which allows Agilion to always remain competitively relevant and in high demand.

###Transparency
We believe everyone at Agilion is able to view and offer opinions on anything the company does or creates.  There are no secrets within Agilion, although we do safe guard our customers confidential information.  We do not hide things from customers - We share both good and bad news as it occurs.  Transparency builds a culture of honesty and accountability.

##Services

###Hourly consulting

The team is the product.  

Our people are highly skilled and great at what we do.  We leverage our team and a development process that delivers predictable results.    Hourly consulting is scheduled in monthly increments depending on needs and scope of the project.

###LeanVision workshop

Agilion is known for our ability to quickly filter information and facilitate sessions that provide clear purpose and focus for product development.  The LeanVision workshop is designed to bring out the essentials of product discovery and define requirements that prepare a team for an effective first iteration of hourly consulting.  

It is a prerequisite for product development.

##Goals

###Big goal 
Grow a happy and productive team maintaining 80% loyal customer base reaching $25M annual revenue through products and services.  

###This year goal
Nine exceptional employees with $1.4M booked revenue and 33% profitability by Dec 31st, 2014.

###Current month goal 
Hire two exceptional employees. 

##Agilion business model

Simple Version. 

1. Identify the 20% of our activities that generates 80% of our most profitable results and satisfied customers.
2. Refine and package those 20% activities into products or services for customers at a fee.
3. Eliminate everything else.
4. Repeat steps 1, 2 & 3.

The Business Model Canvas version is located in Agilion's LucidChart account.

##Agilion governance

###Philosophy

Our team enjoys the work we do and the people we work with.  We share success and failure as a team.   

We reward fairly based on the value generated by individuals and the collective.   Self-directed and self-motivated people thrive at Agilion, others won't last long in the organization.

The company operates much like a Holacracy in accordance with shared vision and goals.

Agilion is owned and managed by partner owners who are responsible to clarify and steer company vision, strategy and process when necessary.   

 

###Roles

At Agilion everyone is a manger of one:  *Themselves.* 

Everyone is in charge of their own career, setting an example, and being responsible to make things happen and align their workplace goals towards the success of the company vision.  We trust everyone acts in accordance with the collective values and strives for success.

In terms of individual responsibilities: employee's must be remarkable and work to create vast amounts of value for the company and themselves.  

Being remarkable is measured in producing great results within the minimum billable hour requirement and helping strengthen the reputation of Agilion as a premier product development agency.   

Being remarkable happens through becoming an exceptional generalist while gaining depth and making contribution through a core strength and competence.   

Working well with strengths of other members on the team is essential for our collective success.  

Everyone at Agilion may play aspects of all roles at Agilion from time to time, or acts where they see a need.  

Roles in the company are broken down into two categories:  *Makers & Managers*.

####Maker roles 

A maker role is responsible for *building things.*

Maker schedules require zero to minimal meetings and interruptions in order to achieve a mental state of flow and creative productivity.

Success is measured by *quality billable deliverables.*
 
Maker roles include

* **Designer**:  Conceptualizes UI/UX interactions through wire framing and client-side programming
*  **Architect**: Designs solutions and integration plans through diagramming and written specifications
* **Developer**: Creates applications through full-stack programming (server-side, front-end, API, Databases)

 
####Manager roles

A manager role is responsible for *building relationships.*

Manager schedules require more frequent task switching, communication and event scheduling in order to facilitate others outside the organization to contribute towards the success of the company.  

Success is measured by *growing the company influence, reputation and resources.* 

Manager roles include

*  **CEO**:  Steer company vision, goals & strategy.  Ensure right people; right roles.
*  **Marketing**: Position products within market demands, improve brand, turn customers into "evangelists"
* **Sales**: Help people get what they want, increase demand through sales process, discover and grow channels
*  **Operations**: Optimize internal systems and workflow automation
*  **Finance**: Improve positive cash flow and manage finances, de-risk liabilities
*  **Project management**: Track project status & budgets, proactive customer communication, coordinate resource schedules
*  **Product ownership**: Steer product vision and priorities



###Employee expectations

We expect three things

* Minimum effective billable hours
* Positive attitude
* Adopt Agilion values

####Minimum effective billable hours
* Avg. 32 effective billable hours a week
* Avg. 128 effective billable hours a month 
* 1,536 effective billable hours a year.  

When you work, we expect your highest quality billable work .  
When you rest, we expect you to rest.  
When you learn, we expect you to learn fast and apply it.

At Agilion, we value consistency and good creative energy.  We value quality.  We value greatness and efficiency.  If you're billing more than 40 hours a week, then we're going to be concerned that quality may be suffering.  We want an average of 32 solid, quality billable hours a week.  After that, we want you to learn, rest, and enjoy life.   While we don't track vacation or sick days, we expect that you'll take some time off periodically through the year.    When you take time off, we don't want you working or checking in. We want you well rested to come back bringing your highest quality work.

####Display a positive attitude

Agilion has high standards and stretch goals.  

Our success comes from the success mindset of our team and customers.   

Morale and happiness of the team is crucial.  No one likes a downer and *constant pessimist.  Negative energy cripples the health of a team which needs be creative and produce results.    Bring your best to the work environment and encourage others to do the same.   

**constant pessimist is not to be confused with realistic project analysis and assessments.*

All that being said.  No one can keep a positive outlook all the time. When you're having trouble with attitude, then we encourage the following 

Three steps to work through negative emotions and regain positive outlook.

1. **Stop complaining**.   Complaining is not actionable and distracts yourself and others from tasks.  Instead, channel negative emotions, lost confidence and frustrations into clear problems by articulating things in specific observable and measurable terms.   A **problem** is the difference between what is *actually* happening and what you *desire* to be happening.  If after clearing describing the problem you feel a need to vent emotionally through complaining, then consider how that affects others in the company.  Will that help the team?  The answer is no.  Chronic complaining is a self-destructive behavior.  If you feel the need to vent, then consider hiring a therapist to help work with you.  Therapists or life coaching is recommended to anyone at Agilion who is seeking to grow and improve professionally.

2. **Reflect on what you accomplished**.  When feeling negative or stressed, it is helpful to reflect on things you have done well, and what you have accomplished so far in the given hour, day, week, month or even your life if you feel things haven't gone well lately.  Try to be grateful for things, and then re-focus your energy and build your confidence for the task at hand.

3.  **Change your perspective**.  After you've done the above, then take a moment to think about how you're thinking about the problem.  Can you explore any new angles?  Seek collaboration with the team and customers when appropriate.   Determine potential solutions for the problem, and then solve it.  Solving things is why you get paid.   
 
####Adopt Agilion values

Act and resonate with a level of commitment matching Agilion values.  If it feels natural to you, then you’ll do very well.   If it doesn't, then it's best for everyone if you move on to another organization and seek collaboration with others that match your values.


###Partner expectations

* All the employee expectations (except billable hours depending on roles).
* Ensure fair compensation policies.
* Ensure strategic and day-to-day operations are aligned with success goals.

###Hiring & firing

Hiring and firing is a collective decision making process.   

We always seek people with highest potential.  We seek high achievers and people who strive for success.

If someone isn’t able to exceed at Agilion, then it’s likely a symptom of not being able to work as a team member or produce results through self-direction.

Ultimately, unanimous partner decision is needed to hire or fire an employee.  

General grounds for dismissal are as follows:

* Failing to meet company expectations (i.e.: low billable hours, poor attitude, not fitting in with agilion values)
* Legal issues that are cause for dismissal

##Agilion processes

###Why we have processes

As Richard Branson once quoted:  "*What works once may never work again. What everyone tells you never to do may just work, once. There are no rules.* "  

Agilion's highest value is approaching every new situation with a unique ability to understand core problems, then innovate and produce solutions by leveraging the skill and experience of our product team.  

Any other activity in our business is subject to elimination, outsourcing, or processes.  We do this so that our creative energy can be free towards adding the most value for ourselves and customers.  

Agilion's processes.

1. Communication
2. Collaboration & Problem solving
3. Customer engagement
4. New employee ramp-up
5. Team decision making
6. Portfolio management
7. Project budgeting
8. Product development
9. Billings, time tracking and expenses
10. Sales
11. Tech Stack Fundamentals 

#### 1. Communication

Here is the process for what, when & why Agilion communicates.

| What | When | Where| Why |
| :-------- |:---------- |:-------- | :------- |
| Team breakfast | Mondays @ 8am | A restaurant in BTV  |  Team get-together & weekly plans |
| Team SCRUM | 15min; 9am, T-F | Google hangout | Individual highlights from yesterday, today's plan, coordinations as needed |
| Customer Checkins | 7-15 min. slots: 9:15 - 9:45am, T-F | Google hangouts | Highlight progress since last checkin, describe next tasks; coordinate as needed |
| Internal Chat | asynchronous | Flowdock room | Collaborate as needed |
| Face-to-face mtgs | only if needed | wherever it makes sense | better have a good reason, don't waste people's time |

#### 2. Collaboration & problem solving

Agilion's process for collaboration is based on the mastermind principle described by Napoleon Hill.

Agilion's process for collaboration is as follows:

1. A single problem is identified and articulated in observable and measurable terms.  (everything else is shelved for another collaboration session)
2. A desired outcome for a solution is agreed upon.
3. Everyone stays emotionally detached from any particular solution, how things should be, or any particular way of doing something.
4. With open minds, the team discusses possible solutions.  
5. When a good enough solution appears, the team breaks down high-level action items and formulates an implementation plan.

#### 3. Customer engagement

Everyone at Agilion talks to customers.  There is no *project manager gatekeeper*.  It is a fundamental skill everyone at Agilion learns.

Here are some general guidelines for developers at Agilion when communicating with customers:

1. Always be professional, polite and think about the goals from our customer perspective. 
2. If you're not clear on what the customer wants, then get clear by asking specific questions.  Use the six-sigma"why" method to understand root level motivations if needed.
3. Set clear expectations on when and why we communicate on a predictable schedule.   Agree on what type of information should be communicated immediately, vs. what can wait for checkins.  If a customer has a hard time prioritizing important actions vs. non-immediate distractions, then ask customer to verify the importance of requests to the LeanVision plan and main benefits.  Seek help from the team if needed.
4. If a customer gives you a compliment, then reply with gratitude.
5. If a customer treats you with disrespect, complains, or is being rude... then do not respond in haste unless you are emotionally clear-headed and can formulate respectful questions that help the customer describe emotions as problems.   Seek help from the team if needed.
5. Periodically ask customers at the close of scope of work assignments the question:  "*Would you recommend Agilion? Why?*".   Use that feedback.

#### 4. New Employee ramp-up

It is critical for a new employee ramp-up period to be as fast and as smooth as possible.

Within 90 days a new employee must be effectively succeeding on the the three Agilion expectations: *Billable hours, positive attitude, company values*.

First 90 day benchmarks for new employees

*Day 1*

* Access and accounts to all things: *new email, Github, web services, etc.*
* Localhost set-up & orientation on tech-stacks and Agilion documentation 
* Open your first pull request to add your bio to company website

*Day 2*

* Shadow another employee on a contract for the day
* Goal setting session with CEO

*Day 3 - 10*

* Kick-off an internal Agilion project  (i.e.: Marketing website, internal tools, etc)
* Learn Agilion processes and basic tech stack
* The team will be looking to catch you do something right, and provide positive feedback

*Day 11 - 90*

* Integrate into billable contracts; (Agilion may or may not bill out your hours depending on the results)
* Learn Agilion processes and basic tech stack
* The team will be looking to catch you do something right, and provide positive feedback

*Day 90+* 

* Collective decision will be made to retain you on the team or let you go based on your results of the first 90 days.
* You will now do your own goal setting, direct yourself to contracts, and become remarkable to the organization.  

#### 5. Team decision making

When possible the team enjoys making collective plans and decisions at weekly breakfast meetings that affect us all in the progression of our company. 

However, as a company there will be thousands of micro decisions that must be made all the time. We expect you to make decisions and involve the right people when appropriate.   Some small decisions on projects require a customer input, some don't.  Some decisions for the company require Partner level input, some don't.   A lot of times it doesn't make economic sense to drag in people from billable work for a group decision.  

It also means you need to trust other people will make decisions without you because you're likely busy on billable work as well.

In general, if you believe the thing to do is right, and it is in line with the company values and expectations, then go ahead and do it.

If people are pissed about it later, then they'll tell you and we can all learn about why it was either a good or bad decision, and then life goes on.   Learn the lessons.  Forgive and forget.

#### 6. Portfolio management

Agilion works on multiple projects at any given time.

Every monday morning, Agilion reviews the status of each project in the portfolio and adjusts weekly resource plans as needed.

All projects are tracked on Agilion's *Active Project Portfolio* spreadsheet.

*Each project must have*
 
* designated project lead
* clear purpose and main goal for Agilion
* updated project status every monday
* updated budget forecast every monday

*General guidelines*

* Try to focus on one project in a week
* If you are working on multiple projects, then try focusing at least a full day on one contract to limit task switching
* Red-flag if you're task switching more than two projects in a given week.
* Project lead always communicates budget & capacity expectations immediately with customer if you know something changes estimates


#### 7. Project management, budgeting & estimation

Any new project for Agilion must have gone through a 1-page LeanVision exercise such that the web or mobile application has a clear purpose, main goal and major tasks that represent core benefits to a user(s).

Based on the main goal and major tasks, customers are asked to set a do not exceed limit of hours on our monthly capacity budget towards the development of each task.     We work within those budget constraints and scope work accordingly.  The focus should be implementing elegant solutions with the least amount of time possible that still retains high quality.  If not enough time is budgeted for a task, then it's best to skip that task all together.

At Agilion we do not set hard estimates or fixed date/fixed bid deliverables. 

We believe web and mobile applications are always in constant improvement and iteration.  We do our best to communication and iterate quickly which is always minimizing the customer cost at all times.   

Agilion does our best to approximate and guess hours for each major task at the beginning of each week, however this number is only a ball park guess and should treated as such. 

There is a catch-22 phenomena in project management.  As soon as you estimate a specific thing to be completed by a future date at a future cost, then you're already setting everyone up for broken promises and disappointments because no one is able to control external circumstances which may or may not occur.   

On the other hand, if people are too timid, fearful or hesitant about setting targeted timeframes and they push expectations to far out into the future in fear of disappointing people when missing deadlines,  then the actual work may not be executed in the most effective way and it will expand to absorb the estimated timelines.

This next concept, is something that we believe is a natural or universal law. 

An individual is only able to *control* one thing:  **his or her own thoughts.**.

An individual at Agilion is able too *commit* to how they will operate.   They can commit to execute to the best of their ability within the time & budget constraints.   As a team, we will be creative, use constraints to our advantage and deliver in the best way we can while adapting to the changing external circumstances.

The art of project management and budgeting is thus to ensure plans are as clear as possible, are as simple as possible, communicated effectively as possible, and that people bring their best efforts to execute and deliver.

If a prospect or customer does not understand this, laughs at this philosophy, or insists we provide fixed deadlines on specific deliverables, then it's best to not start any work agreement on that project with that prospect.  If it is a customer, then we should suggest alternative vendors and part ways amicably.
 
Here is an example of how we schedule work and communicate budget constraints:

Scheduling is done within two constraints:

1. Agilion's available billable hour capacity that month.
2. The customer's budget.

For example, an existing customer approaches us with a requirement for their project.  They've already gone through our LeanVision process and so we know how to work effectively together.

Most likely Agilion will be at capacity for the current month.  So we'll inform the customer how many hours we have available.  An example project portfolio status may look like this:

| Project | Current Month | Month 2 | Month 3 | 
| :---------| :---------------------| :-------------| :----------- | 
| Project 1 |  200 hrs | 200 hrs | 80 hrs |
| Project 2 | 300 hrs | 200 hrs | - |
| Project 3 | 80 hrs  | - | - | 
| TOTAL | 580 hrs | 400 hrs | 80 hrs | 
| % Capacity | FULL | 69% | 14% | 

While prospects and customers may give of verbal estimates of how many hours they want in the future, we can only reserve time when a customer physically allocates appropriate budget funds into a 3rd party escrow account.  Funds are only paid to Agilion when we've invoiced actual hours completed.  This is a win-win situation because it ensures customers fully commit to the work and we don't pass up other opportunities with our other loyal customers.  It provides customers with peace of mind that they only pay when service is delivered.

In the example above, assuming we have 180 hours available the next month, and 500 hours available the 3rd month, then the customer may choose to reserve an appropriate amount of time within those time block constraints.

Then, the steps for project management estimates are very simple.  The customer agrees to a budget, we coordinate the escrow fund deposit, and then we incorporate the work into our weekly development flow.  We strive to get as much quality work done within that timeframe.  Everyone is happy.


#### 8. Product development

Leveraging conventions and constraints to develop products helps to ensure Agilion is able to better scope, estimate and complete projects with fewer unknowns.  

General sequence of product development activity includes

1. 1-page LeanVision plan
2. Identify a major feature
3. Wireframe and architecture planning
4. Front-end UX/UI implementation
5. Back-end implementation
6. Testing and deployment
7. Repeat 2-6 in quick iterations

#### 9. Billings, time tracking and expenses

*Customer Billings*

1. Upfront fee for LeanVision Workshop
2. Customer deposits budget for the next month in 3rd party escrow account.
3. Agilion invoices on the 1st & 16th of each month based on billable hours.
4. Invoices are paid automatically from escrow account.

*Time tracking*

1. Everyone records billable time through LetsFreckle the same day you did the work.
2. Anyone can check LetsFreckle *pulse* to see who is billing time on which projects
3. Everyone must write a brief and descriptive log of what they did on the time record.  Example: *Customer check-in, plan and code XYZ task*

*Expenses*

1. The leaner Agilion operates, then more available cash bonuses for employees
2. Partners must approve all company expenses.
3. In general Agilion pays for team meals, office, key vendors and subscriptions, marketing and sales operations, and allocated owner expenses.

#### 10. Sales

Agilion sales process

1. Lead requests info from a referral, website, or networking event.
2. Schedule a 15-minute phone call to see if Agilion is a good fit and pre-qualify prospect.
3. If qualified send a LeanVision quote, if not refer to someone in our network who may be better suited to help.
4. Spend no more then two hours discussing questions with a prospect about LeanVision or work we do at Agilion throughout their sales cycle (i.e.: from first contact to quote).    If a prospect doesn't decide and move forward with LeanVision quote after two hours of interactions, then they're likely not the best type of customer fit for Agilion.  We want customers who can make decisions.
5. Upon acceptance of a LeanVision quote, schedule the workshop and prep agreements and a new customer orientation.

#### 11. Tech Steck Fundamentals

Technology and tools change fast, but an individuals core competencies, depth of understanding and ability to apply best practices is an ongoing path of mastery. 

At Agilion, we are fairly technology agnostic, but must ensure at the most basic level everyone on the team has a grasp of the current tech stack we most often employ.

**The basics** that everyone at Agilion must understand at both a theoretical and technical level:

* Generalist awareness of W3C web standards ( http://www.w3.org/TR/ )
* Principles for good interface designs
* Principles for continuous flow development
* Principles for product and project management
* Principles for team collaboration and problem solving
* Principles for product marketing and positioning
* Web and mobile application architecture patterns
* Relational database design patterns
* Non-relational database design patterns
* API design patterns
* Object-oriented programming fundamentals and best practices
* Functional programming fundamentals and best practices
* HTML5 programming language ( http://www.html5rocks.com/ )
* CSS3 programming language
* Javascript programming language
* Ruby programming language
* SQL database language
* Git ( http://git-scm.com/ )
* Less css-pre processor ( http://lesscss.org/ )
* Ruby on rails server-side framework  ( http://rubyonrails.org/ )
* Ember javascript framework ( http://emberjs.com/ )



##Agilion team

###Adam
###Pete
###Alan
###Patrick
###Brendan


##Agilion vendor & service providers
| Vendor/Service | Why | Satisfaction Level |
| :-------------- | :--------  | :------------------ |
| GoogleApps.com | Infrastructure of Email, Calendar, Docs, Spreadsheets |  Satisfied |
| Github.com | Source code management, peer reviews and collaboration |  Satisfied |
| Flowdock.com | Team chat and inbox - real-time communication and email repo |  Satisfied |
| Trello.com | Team Kanban board for daily task collaboration |  Satisfied |
| Moqups.com | Wire framing collaboration tool |  Satisfied |
| LucidCharts.com | Diagraming collaboration tool |  Satisfied |
| Letsfreckle.com | Team time tracking tools |  Satisfied |
| agilion.quoteroller.com | Proposals |  Satisfied |
| Xero.com | Accounting and invoicing tools |  Satisfied |
| Bill.com | Checks receipt processing | Satisfied |
| Stripe.com | Credit card receipt processing  | Satisfied |
| SVB.com | Primary bank account and credit card | Ok for now |
| Paypal.com | Secondary money account  | Ok for now |
| ADP.com | Payroll processing | Seeking to replace |
| Dunkielsaunders.com | Legal advice and lawyer | Satisfied |
| Hwhcpas.com | Financial advice, tax filings and accountant | Satisfied |
| Bizfilings.com | Business registrant | Satisfied |
| Bookkeeper360.com | Bookkeeping services | Satisfied |
| Godady.com | Domain names | Ok for now |
| Networksolutions.com | .IO Domain names | Seeking to replace |
| Heroku.com | App hosting and services | Ok for now  |
| aws.amazon.com | App hosting and services | Satisfied  |




